Add TLS Connect to Dedicated Tier of TiDB Cloud (#12050)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-tls-connect-to-dedicated-tier.md

  port: 4000,
  user: 'root',
  password: '<your_password>',
  database: 'test',
  ssl: {
    ca: fs.readFileSync('ca.pem'),
    minVersion: 'TLSv1.2',
    rejectUnauthorized: true
  }
});
```

You can click **show example usage** to view detailed code examples.

```
var mysql = require('mysql2');
var fs = require('fs');
var connection = mysql.createConnection({
  host: 'tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com',
  port: 4000,
  user: 'root',
  password: '<your_password>',
  database: 'test',
  ssl: {
    ca: fs.readFileSync('ca.pem'),
    minVersion: 'TLSv1.2',
    rejectUnauthorized: true
  }
});
connection.connect(function(err) {
  if (err) {
    throw err
  }
  connection.query('SELECT DATABASE();', function(err, rows) {
    if (err) {
      throw err
    }
    console.log(rows[0]['DATABASE()']);
    connection.end()
  });
});
```

Parameter descriptions：

- Set `ssl: {minVersion: 'TLSv1.2'}` to restrict the versions of the TLS protocol. If you want to use TLS 1.3, you can set the version to `TLSv1.3`.
- Set `ssl: {ca: fs.readFileSync('<CA_path>')}` to read your local CA path of the downloaded TiDB cluster `ca.pem`.

</div>
</SimpleTab>

> ## Root certificate management of Dedicated Tier 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Manage root certificates for Dedicated Tier 
```

TiDB Dedicated Tier uses certificates from [AWS Certificate Manager (ACM)](https://aws.amazon.com/certificate-manager/) as a Certificate Authority (CA) for TLS connections between clients and TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters. Usually, the root certificates of ACM are stored securely in AWS-managed hardware security modules (HSMs) that meet [FIPS 140-2 Level 3](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/Certificate/3139) security standards. 

## FAQs

### Which TLS versions are supported to connect to my TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier cluster?

For security reasons, TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier only supports TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3, and does not support TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1 versions. See IETF [Deprecating TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc8996/) for details.

> ### Is two-way TLS authentication between my client and TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier supported?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Is two-way mTLS authentication between my client and TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier supported?
```

Reviewer 2: two-way and mTLS 有点重复了吧

Reviewer 3: +1，要不文档里的这三处统一改成 two-way TLS authentication？

No.

> TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier only supports one-way TLS authentication, and does not support two-way TLS authentication currently. If you need two-way TLS authentication, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

Reviewer 4: Is two-way TLS authentication can supported by contacting support?

> TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier only supports one-way TLS authentication, and does not support two-way mTLS authentication currently. If you need two-way TLS authentication, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier only supports one-way TLS authentication, and does not support two-way TLS authentication currently. If you need two-way TLS authentication, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).
```

- Set a password to access your cluster in secure settings.

    To do so, you can navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project, click **...** in the row of your Dedicated Tier cluster, and then select **Security Settings**. In security settings, you can click **Generate** to automatically generate a root password with a length of 16 characters, including numbers, uppercase and lowercase characters, and special characters.

## Secure connection to a Dedicated Tier cluster

In the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/), you can get examples of different connection methods and connect to your Dedicated Tier cluster as follows:

1. Navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project, and then click the name of your Dedicated Tier cluster to go to its overview page.

2. Click **Connect** in the upper-right corner. A dialog is displayed.

> 3. On the **Standard Connection** tab of this dialog, follow the three steps to set up the TLS connction.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. On the **Standard Connection** tab of this dialog, follow the three steps to set up the TLS connection.
```

   - Step 1：Create traffic filter
   - Step 2：Download TiDB cluster CA
   - Step 3：Connect with an SQL client

4. Under **Step 1: Create traffic filter** in the dialog, configure the IP addresses that are allowed to access your cluster. For more information, see [Configure an IP access list in standard connection](/tidb-cloud/configure-ip-access-list.md#configure-an-ip-access-list-in-standard-connection).

> 5. Under **Step 2: Download TiDB cluster CA**, click **Download TiDB cluster CA** to download it locally for client TLS configuration. Verify the TiDB cluster CA to ensure that the TLS connection is secure and reliable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
5. Under **Step 2: Download TiDB cluster CA**, click **Download TiDB cluster CA** to download it locally for client TLS configuration. The TiDB cluster CA ensures that the TLS connection is secure and reliable.
```

    > **Note:**
    > 
    > After downloading your Dedicated Tier cluster CA, you can store it in the default storage path of your operating system, or specify another storage path. You need to replace the CA path in the code example with your own cluster CA path in the subsequent steps. 

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

  port: 4000,
  user: 'root',
  password: '<your_password>',
  database: 'test',
  ssl: {
    ca: fs.readFileSync('ca.pem'),
    minVersion: 'TLSv1.2',
    rejectUnauthorized: true
  }
});
```

You can click **show example usage** to view detailed code examples.

```
var mysql = require('mysql2');
var fs = require('fs');
var connection = mysql.createConnection({
  host: 'tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com',
  port: 4000,
  user: 'root',
  password: '<your_password>',
  database: 'test',
  ssl: {
    ca: fs.readFileSync('ca.pem'),
    minVersion: 'TLSv1.2',
    rejectUnauthorized: true
  }
});
connection.connect(function(err) {
  if (err) {
    throw err
  }
  connection.query('SELECT DATABASE();', function(err, rows) {
    if (err) {
      throw err
    }
    console.log(rows[0]['DATABASE()']);
    connection.end()
  });
});
```

Parameter descriptions：

- Set `ssl: {minVersion: 'TLSv1.2'}` to restrict the versions of the TLS protocol. If you want to use TLS 1.3, you can set the version to `TLSv1.3`.
- Set `ssl: {ca: fs.readFileSync('<CA_path>')}` to read your local CA path of the downloaded TiDB cluster `ca.pem`.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

</div>
</SimpleTab>

> ## Root Digital certificate management of Dedicated Tier 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Root certificate management of Dedicated Tier 
```

TiDB Dedicated Tier uses certificates from [AWS Certificate Manager (ACM)](https://aws.amazon.com/certificate-manager/) as a Certificate Authority (CA) for TLS connections between clients and TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters. Usually, the root certificates of ACM are stored securely in AWS-managed hardware security modules (HSMs) that meet [FIPS 140-2 Level 3](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/Certificate/3139) security standards. 

## FAQs

### Which TLS versions are supported to connect to my TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier cluster?

For security reasons, TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier only supports TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3, and does not support TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1 versions. See IETF [Deprecating TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc8996/) for details.

### Is two-way TLS authentication between my client and TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier supported?

No.

> TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier only supports one-way TLS authentication, TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier only supports one-way TLS authentication, and does not support two-way MTLS authentication currently. If you have needs, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier only supports one-way TLS authentication, TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier only supports one-way TLS authentication, and does not support two-way MTLS authentication currently. If you have needs two-way TLS authentication, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).
```

> TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier only supports one-way TLS authentication, TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier only supports one-way TLS authentication, and does not support two-way MTLS authentication currently. If you need two-way TLS authentication, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier only supports one-way TLS authentication, TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier only supports one-way TLS authentication, and does not support two-way mTLS authentication currently. If you need two-way mTLS authentication, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).
```

> TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier only supports one-way TLS authentication, TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier only supports one-way TLS authentication, and does not support two-way mTLS authentication currently. If you need two-way mTLS authentication, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier only supports one-way TLS authentication, and does not support two-way mTLS authentication currently. If you need two-way mTLS authentication, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).
```

> TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier only supports one-way TLS authentication, TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier only supports one-way TLS authentication, and does not support two-way MTLS authentication currently. If you have needs, could you please contact TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

Reviewer: if you have needs 是指用户需要 two-way TLS authentication 吗？如果是的话，可以改成 If you need two-way authentication 
```suggestion
TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier only supports one-way TLS authentication, TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier only supports one-way TLS authentication, and does not support two-way MTLS authentication currently. If you have needs, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).
```

---
title: TLS Connections to Dedicated Tier
summary: Introduce TLS connections in TiDB Dedicated Tier.
---

# TLS Connections to Dedicated Tier

On TiDB Cloud, establishing TLS connections is one of the basic security practices for connecting to Dedicated Tier clusters. You can configure multiple TLS connections from your client, application, and development tools to your Dedicated Tier cluster to protect data transmission security. For security reasons, TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier only supports TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3, and does not support TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1 versions.

> TiDB cluster CA in your Dedicated Tier cluster is hosted on [AWS Certificate Manager (ACM)](https://aws.amazon.com/certificate-manager/) . TiDB cluster Private keys are stored securely in AWS-managed hardware security modules (HSMs) that meet [FIPS 140-2 Level 3](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/Certificate/3139) security standards to protect your private keys.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To ensure data security, TiDB cluster CA for your Dedicated Tier cluster is hosted on [AWS Certificate Manager (ACM)](https://aws.amazon.com/certificate-manager/), and TiDB cluster private keys are stored in AWS-managed hardware security modules (HSMs) that meet [FIPS 140-2 Level 3](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/Certificate/3139) security standards.
```

- Set a password to access your cluster in secure settings.

    To do so, you can navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project, click **...** in the row of your Dedicated Tier cluster, and then select **Security Settings**. In security settings, you can click **Generate** to automatically generate a root password with a length of 16 characters, including numbers, uppercase and lowercase characters, and special characters.

## Secure connection to a Dedicated Tier cluster

In the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/), you can get examples of different connection methods and connect to your Dedicated Tier cluster as follows:

1. Navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project, and then click the name of your Dedicated Tier cluster to go to its overview page.

2. Click **Connect** in the upper-right corner. A dialog is displayed.

3. On the **Standard Connection** tab of this dialog, follow the three steps to set up the TLS connctions.
   - Step 1：Create traffic filter
   - Step 2：Download TiDB cluster CA
   - Step 3：Connect with an SQL client

> 4. Under **Step 1：Create traffic filter** in the dialog, configure the IP addresses that are allowed to access your cluster. For more information, see [Configure an IP access list in standard connection](/tidb-cloud/configure-ip-access-list.md#configure-an-ip-access-list-in-standard-connection).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Under **Step 1: Create traffic filter** in the dialog, configure the IP addresses that are allowed to access your cluster. For more information, see [Configure an IP access list in standard connection](/tidb-cloud/configure-ip-access-list.md#configure-an-ip-access-list-in-standard-connection).
```

5. Under **Step 2: Download TiDB cluster CA**, click **Download TiDB cluster CA** to download it locally for client TLS configuration. Verifying the TiDB cluster CA can ensure the TLS connection is secure and reliable.

    > **Note:**
    > 
    > After downloading your Dedicated Tier cluster CA, you can store it in the default storage path of your operating system, or specify another storage path. Make sure that you need to replace the CA path in the code example with your own cluster CA path in the subsequent steps. 

6. Under **Step 3: Connect with an SQL client** in the dialog, click the tab of your preferred connection method, and then refer to the connection string and sample code on the tab to connect to your cluster.

> The following examples show the connection strings in MySQL, MyCLI , JDBC, Python, Go, and Node.js:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following examples show the connection strings in MySQL, MyCLI, JDBC, Python, Go, and Node.js:
```

<SimpleTab>
<div label="MySQL CLI">

MySQL CLI client attempts to establish a TLS connection by default. When you connect to Dedicated Tier clusters, you should set `ssl-mode` and `ssl-ca`.

```shell
mysql --connect-timeout 15 --ssl-mode=VERIFY_IDENTITY --ssl-ca=ca.pem --tls-version="TLSv1.2" -u root -h tidb.eqlfbdgthh8.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com -P 4000 -D test -p
```

Parameter description：

- With `--ssl-mode=VERIFY_IDENTITY`, MySQL CLI client forces to enable TLS and validate TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters.

> - Update `ca.pem` in `--ssl-ca=<CA_path>` to your local path of the downloaded TiDB cluster ca.pem.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Use `--ssl-ca=<CA_path>` to specify your local path of the downloaded TiDB cluster `ca.pem`.
```

> - Use `--tls-version=TLSv1.2` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol，if you want to use TLS 1.3, just set the TLS-version to TLS1.3.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use `--tls-version=TLSv1.2` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol, if you want to use TLS 1.3, just set the TLS-version to TLSv1.3.
```

> - Use `--tls-version=TLSv1.2` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol, if you want to use TLS 1.3, just set the TLS-version to TLSv1.3.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Use `--tls-version=TLSv1.2` to restrict the versions of the TLS protocol. If you want to use TLS 1.3, you can set the version to `TLSv1.3`.
```

</div>

<div label="MyCLI">

[MyCLI](https://www.mycli.net/) automatically enables TLS when using TLS related parameters. When you connect to TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters, you need to set `ssl-ca` and `ssl-verify-server-cert`.

```shell
mycli --ssl-ca=ca.pem --ssl-verify-server-cert -u root -h tidb.eqlfbdgthh8.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com -P 4000 -D test
```

Parameter description：

> - Update `ca.pem` in `--ssl-ca=<CA_path>` to your local path of the downloaded TiDB cluster ca.pem.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Use `--ssl-ca=<CA_path>` to specify your local path of the downloaded TiDB cluster `ca.pem`.
```

- With `--ssl-verify-server-cert` to validate TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters.

</div>

<div label="JDBC">

[MySQL Connector/J](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/connector-j/8.0/en/)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.

After downloading TiDB cluster CA, if you want to import it into your operating system, you can use the `keytool -importcert -alias TiDBCACert -file ca.pem -keystore <your_custom_truststore_path> -storepass <your_truststore_password>` command.

```shell
/* Be sure to replace the parameters in the following connection string. */
/* version >= 8.0.28 */
jdbc:mysql://tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com:4000/test?user=root&password=<your_password>&sslMode=VERIFY_IDENTITY&tlsVersions=TLSv1.2&trustCertificateKeyStoreUrl=file:<your_custom_truststore_path>&trustCertificateKeyStorePassword=<your_truststore_password>
```

> You can click **show example usage** to view detailed code examples.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

You can click **show example usage** to view detailed code examples.
```

```
import com.mysql.jdbc.Driver;
import java.sql.*;
  
class Main {
  public static void main(String args[]) throws SQLException, ClassNotFoundException {
    Class.forName("com.mysql.cj.jdbc.Driver");
    try {
      Connection conn = DriverManager.getConnection("jdbc:mysql://tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com:4000/test?user=root&password=<your_password>&sslMode=VERIFY_IDENTITY&tlsVersions=TLSv1.2&trustCertificateKeyStoreUrl=file:<your_custom_truststore_path>&trustCertificateKeyStorePassword=<your_truststore_password>");
      Statement stmt = conn.createStatement();
      try {
        ResultSet rs = stmt.executeQuery("SELECT DATABASE();");
        if (rs.next()) {
          System.out.println("using db:" + rs.getString(1));
        }
      } catch (Exception e) {
        System.out.println("exec error:" + e);
      }      
    } catch (Exception e) {
      System.out.println("connect error:" + e);
    }
  }
}
```

Parameter description：

- Set `sslMode=VERIFY_IDENTITY` to enable TLS and validate TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters.

> - Set `enabledTLSProtocols=TLSv1.2` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol,if you want to use TLS 1.3, just set the TLS-version to TLS1.3.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Set `enabledTLSProtocols=TLSv1.2` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol,if you want to use TLS 1.3, just set the TLS-version to TLSv1.3.
```

> - Set `enabledTLSProtocols=TLSv1.2` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol, if you want to use TLS 1.3, just set the TLS-version to TLSv1.3.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Set `enabledTLSProtocols=TLSv1.2` to restrict the versions of the TLS protocol. If you want to use TLS 1.3, you can set the version to `TLSv1.3`.
```

- Set `trustCertificateKeyStoreUrl` to your custom truststore path.
- Set `trustCertificateKeyStorePassword` to your truststore password.

</div>

<div label="Python">

[mysqlclient](https://pypi.org/project/mysqlclient/)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.

```
host="tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com", user="root", password="<your_password>", port=4000, database="test", ssl_mode="VERIFY_IDENTITY", ssl={"ca": "ca.pem"}
```

You can click **show example usage** to view detailed code examples.

```
import MySQLdb

connection = MySQLdb.connect(host="tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com", port=4000, user="root", password="<your_password>", database="test", ssl_mode="VERIFY_IDENTITY", ssl={"ca": "ca.pem"})

with connection:
    with connection.cursor() as cursor:
        cursor.execute("SELECT DATABASE();")
        m = cursor.fetchone()
        print(m[0])
```

Parameter description：

- Set `ssl_mode="VERIFY_IDENTITY"` to enable TLS and validate TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters.

> - Update `ca.pem` in `ssl={"ca": "<CA_path>"}` via your local CA path of the downloaded TiDB cluster ca.pem.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Use `ssl={"ca": "<CA_path>"}` to specify your local path of the downloaded TiDB cluster `ca.pem`.
```

</div>

<div label="Node.js">

[Mysql2](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mysql2)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.

```
var connection = mysql.createConnection({
  host: 'tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com',
  port: 4000,
  user: 'root',
  password: '<your_password>',
  database: 'test',
  ssl: {
    ca: fs.readFileSync('ca.pem'),
    minVersion: 'TLSv1.2',
    rejectUnauthorized: true
  }
});
```

You can click **show example usage** to view detailed code examples.

```
var mysql = require('mysql2');
var fs = require('fs');
var connection = mysql.createConnection({
  host: 'tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com',
  port: 4000,
  user: 'root',
  password: '<your_password>',
  database: 'test',
  ssl: {
    ca: fs.readFileSync('ca.pem'),
    minVersion: 'TLSv1.2',
    rejectUnauthorized: true
  }
});
connection.connect(function(err) {
  if (err) {
    throw err
  }
  connection.query('SELECT DATABASE();', function(err, rows) {
    if (err) {
      throw err
    }
    console.log(rows[0]['DATABASE()']);
    connection.end()
  });
});
```

Parameter description：

> - Set `ssl: {minVersion: 'TLSv1.2'}` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol,if you want to use TLS 1.3, just set the TLS-version to TLS1.3.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Set `ssl: {minVersion: 'TLSv1.2'}` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol, if you want to use TLS 1.3, just set the TLS-version to TLSv1.3.
```

> - Set `ssl: {minVersion: 'TLSv1.2'}` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol, if you want to use TLS 1.3, just set the TLS-version to TLSv1.3.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Set `ssl: {minVersion: 'TLSv1.2'}` to restrict the versions of the TLS protocol. If you want to use TLS 1.3, you can set the version to `TLSv1.3`.
```

> - Set `ssl: {ca: fs.readFileSync('<CA_path>')}` to read your local CA path of the downloaded TiDB cluster ca.pem.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Set `ssl: {ca: fs.readFileSync('<CA_path>')}` to read your local CA path of the downloaded TiDB cluster `ca.pem`.
```

- Set a password to access your cluster in secure settings.

    To do so, you can navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project, click **...** in the row of your Dedicated Tier cluster, and then select **Security Settings**. In security settings, you can click **Generate** to automatically generate a root password with a length of 16 characters, including numbers, uppercase and lowercase characters, and special characters.

## Secure connection to a Dedicated Tier cluster

In the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/), you can get examples of different connection methods and connect to your Dedicated Tier cluster as follows:

1. Navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project, and then click the name of your Dedicated Tier cluster to go to its overview page.

2. Click **Connect** in the upper-right corner. A dialog is displayed.

> 3. On the **Standard Connection** tab of this dialog, follow the three steps to set up the TLS connctions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. On the **Standard Connection** tab of this dialog, follow the three steps to set up the TLS connction.
```

   - Step 1：Create traffic filter
   - Step 2：Download TiDB cluster CA
   - Step 3：Connect with an SQL client

4. Under **Step 1: Create traffic filter** in the dialog, configure the IP addresses that are allowed to access your cluster. For more information, see [Configure an IP access list in standard connection](/tidb-cloud/configure-ip-access-list.md#configure-an-ip-access-list-in-standard-connection).

> 5. Under **Step 2: Download TiDB cluster CA**, click **Download TiDB cluster CA** to download it locally for client TLS configuration. Verifying the TiDB cluster CA can ensure the TLS connection is secure and reliable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Under **Step 2: Download TiDB cluster CA**, click **Download TiDB cluster CA** to download it locally for client TLS configuration. Verify the TiDB cluster CA to ensure that the TLS connection is secure and reliable.
```

    > **Note:**
    > 

>     > After downloading your Dedicated Tier cluster CA, you can store it in the default storage path of your operating system, or specify another storage path. Make sure that you need to replace the CA path in the code example with your own cluster CA path in the subsequent steps. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > After downloading your Dedicated Tier cluster CA, you can store it in the default storage path of your operating system, or specify another storage path. You need to replace the CA path in the code example with your own cluster CA path in the subsequent steps. 
```

6. Under **Step 3: Connect with an SQL client** in the dialog, click the tab of your preferred connection method, and then refer to the connection string and sample code on the tab to connect to your cluster.

The following examples show the connection strings in MySQL, MyCLI, JDBC, Python, Go, and Node.js:

<SimpleTab>
<div label="MySQL CLI">

> MySQL CLI client attempts to establish a TLS connection by default. When you connect to Dedicated Tier clusters, you should set `ssl-mode` and `ssl-ca`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MySQL CLI client attempts to establish a TLS connection by default. When you connect to Dedicated Tier clusters, you need to set `ssl-mode` and `ssl-ca`.
```

```shell
mysql --connect-timeout 15 --ssl-mode=VERIFY_IDENTITY --ssl-ca=ca.pem --tls-version="TLSv1.2" -u root -h tidb.eqlfbdgthh8.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com -P 4000 -D test -p
```

Parameter description：

- With `--ssl-mode=VERIFY_IDENTITY`, MySQL CLI client forces to enable TLS and validate TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters.
- Use `--ssl-ca=<CA_path>` to specify your local path of the downloaded TiDB cluster `ca.pem`.
- Use `--tls-version=TLSv1.2` to restrict the versions of the TLS protocol. If you want to use TLS 1.3, you can set the version to `TLSv1.3`.

</div>

<div label="MyCLI">

[MyCLI](https://www.mycli.net/) automatically enables TLS when using TLS related parameters. When you connect to TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters, you need to set `ssl-ca` and `ssl-verify-server-cert`.

```shell
mycli --ssl-ca=ca.pem --ssl-verify-server-cert -u root -h tidb.eqlfbdgthh8.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com -P 4000 -D test
```

> Parameter description：

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parameter descriptions：
```

    }
  }
}
```

Parameter description：

- Set `sslMode=VERIFY_IDENTITY` to enable TLS and validate TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters.
- Set `enabledTLSProtocols=TLSv1.2` to restrict the versions of the TLS protocol. If you want to use TLS 1.3, you can set the version to `TLSv1.3`.
- Set `trustCertificateKeyStoreUrl` to your custom truststore path.
- Set `trustCertificateKeyStorePassword` to your truststore password.

</div>

<div label="Python">

[mysqlclient](https://pypi.org/project/mysqlclient/)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.

```
host="tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com", user="root", password="<your_password>", port=4000, database="test", ssl_mode="VERIFY_IDENTITY", ssl={"ca": "ca.pem"}
```

You can click **show example usage** to view detailed code examples.

```
import MySQLdb

connection = MySQLdb.connect(host="tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com", port=4000, user="root", password="<your_password>", database="test", ssl_mode="VERIFY_IDENTITY", ssl={"ca": "ca.pem"})

with connection:
    with connection.cursor() as cursor:
        cursor.execute("SELECT DATABASE();")
        m = cursor.fetchone()
        print(m[0])
```

> Parameter description：

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parameter descriptions：
```

})
    
db, err := sql.Open("mysql", "root:<your_password>@tcp(tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com:4000)/test?tls=tidb")
```

You can click **show example usage** to view detailed code examples.

```
package main
import (
  "crypto/tls"
  "crypto/x509"
  "database/sql"
  "fmt"
  "io/ioutil"
  "log"
  
  "github.com/go-sql-driver/mysql"
)    
func main() {
  rootCertPool := x509.NewCertPool()
  pem, err := ioutil.ReadFile("ca.pem")
  if err != nil {
    log.Fatal(err)
  }
  if ok := rootCertPool.AppendCertsFromPEM(pem); !ok {
    log.Fatal("Failed to append PEM.")
  }
  mysql.RegisterTLSConfig("tidb", &tls.Config{
    RootCAs:    rootCertPool,
    MinVersion: tls.VersionTLS12,
    ServerName: "tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com",
  })
  db, err := sql.Open("mysql", "root:<your_password>@tcp(tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com:4000)/test?tls=tidb")
  if err != nil {
    log.Fatal("failed to connect database", err)
  }
  defer db.Close()

  var dbName string
  err = db.QueryRow("SELECT DATABASE();").Scan(&dbName)
  if err != nil {
    log.Fatal("failed to execute query", err)
  }
  fmt.Println(dbName)
}
```

> Parameter description：

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parameter descriptions：
```

> - Register `tls.Config` in TLS connection configuration to enable TLS and validate TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Register `tls.Config` in the TLS connection configuration to enable TLS and validate TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters. 
```

</div>

<div label="Node.js">

[Mysql2](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mysql2)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.

```
var connection = mysql.createConnection({
  host: 'tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com',
  port: 4000,
  user: 'root',
  password: '<your_password>',
  database: 'test',
  ssl: {
    ca: fs.readFileSync('ca.pem'),
    minVersion: 'TLSv1.2',
    rejectUnauthorized: true
  }
});
```

You can click **show example usage** to view detailed code examples.

```
var mysql = require('mysql2');
var fs = require('fs');
var connection = mysql.createConnection({
  host: 'tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com',
  port: 4000,
  user: 'root',
  password: '<your_password>',
  database: 'test',
  ssl: {
    ca: fs.readFileSync('ca.pem'),
    minVersion: 'TLSv1.2',
    rejectUnauthorized: true
  }
});
connection.connect(function(err) {
  if (err) {
    throw err
  }
  connection.query('SELECT DATABASE();', function(err, rows) {
    if (err) {
      throw err
    }
    console.log(rows[0]['DATABASE()']);
    connection.end()
  });
});
```

> Parameter description：

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parameter descriptions：
```

- Set `ssl: {minVersion: 'TLSv1.2'}` to restrict the versions of the TLS protocol. If you want to use TLS 1.3, you can set the version to `TLSv1.3`.
- Set `ssl: {ca: fs.readFileSync('<CA_path>')}` to read your local CA path of the downloaded TiDB cluster `ca.pem`.

</div>
</SimpleTab>

## Root Digital certificate management of Dedicated Tier 

> ### Root Digital certificate‘s issuance and validity  

Reviewer: 这个孤立标题似乎可以删掉。

Author: OK

TiDB Dedicated Tier uses certificates from [AWS Certificate Manager (ACM)](https://aws.amazon.com/certificate-manager/) as a Certificate Authority (CA) for TLS connections between clients and TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters. Usually, the root certificates of ACM are stored securely in AWS-managed hardware security modules (HSMs) that meet [FIPS 140-2 Level 3](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/Certificate/3139) security standards. 

## FAQs

### Which TLS versions are supported to connect to my TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier cluster?

For security reasons, TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier only supports TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3, and does not support TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1 versions. See IETF [Deprecating TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc8996/) for details.

### Is two-way TLS authentication between my client and TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier supported?

No.

> TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier only supports one-way TLS authentication, which means your client uses the public key to verify the signature of your TiDB Cloud cluster certificate's private key while the cluster does not validate the client.

Reviewer: 这段话有点费解，特别是 while the cluster does not validate the client，这里的 wihle 是转折还是并列关系呢？建议改写下。

---
title: TLS Connections to Dedicated Tier

> summary: Introduce TLS connection in TiDB Dedicated Tier.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
summary: Introduce TLS connections in TiDB Dedicated Tier.
```

---

# TLS Connections to Dedicated Tier

> On TiDB Cloud, TLS connections are one of the basic security practices for connecting to Dedicated Tier clusters. We support you to configure multiple TLS connections from client, application and development tools to protect your data transmission security. Dedicated Tier cluster only supports TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3, and does not support TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1 versions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On TiDB Cloud, establishing TLS connections is one of the basic security practices for connecting to Dedicated Tier clusters. You can configure multiple TLS connections from your client, application, and development tools to your Dedicated Tier cluster to protect data transmission security. 

For security reasons, TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier only supports TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3, and does not support TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1 versions.
```

> For each Dedicated Tier cluster, the server TLS certificate is hosted on [AWS Certificate Manager (ACM)](https://aws.amazon.com/certificate-manager/). ACM Private CA keys are stored securely in AWS-managed hardware security modules (HSMs) that meet [FIPS 140-2 Level 3](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/Certificate/3139) security standards to protect your TLS private keys when Dedicated Tier requests AWS ACM to create it.

Reviewer 3: For "when Dedicated Tier request AWS ACM to create it", what does "it" refer to?

Author: updated，Please check  again

## Prerequisites

- Log in to TiDB Cloud via [Password Authentication](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-password-authentication.md) or [SSO Authentication](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-sso-authentication.md), and then [Create a TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier cluster](/tidb-cloud/create-tidb-cluster.md).

- Set a password to access your cluster in secure settings.

    To do so, you can navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project, click **...** in the row of your Dedicated Tier cluster, and then select **Security Settings**. In security settings, you can click **Generate** to automatically generate a root password with a length of 16 characters, including numbers, uppercase and lowercase characters, and special characters.

## Secure connection to a Dedicated Tier cluster

In the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/), you can get examples of different connection methods and connect to your Dedicated Tier cluster as follows:

1. Navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project, and then click the name of your Dedicated Tier cluster to go to its overview page.

> 2. Click **Connect** in the upper-right corner.  A dialog is displayed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Click **Connect** in the upper-right corner. A dialog is displayed.
```

3. On the **Standard Connection** tab of this dialog, follow the three steps to set up the TLS connctions.
   - Step 1：Create traffic filter
   - Step 2：Download TiDB cluster CA
   - Step 3：Connect with an SQL client

4. Under **Step 1：Create traffic filter** in the dialog, configure the IP addresses that are allowed to access your cluster. For more information, see [Configure an IP access list in standard connection](/tidb-cloud/configure-ip-access-list.md#configure-an-ip-access-list-in-standard-connection).

> 5. Under **Step 2: Download TiDB cluster CA**, click **Download TiDB Cluster CA** to download it locally for client TLS configuration. Verifying the TiDB cluster CA can ensure the TLS connection is secure and reliable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
5. Under **Step 2: Download TiDB cluster CA**, click **Download TiDB Cluster CA** to download it locally for client TLS configuration. Verifying the TiDB cluster CA can ensure the TLS connection is secure and reliable.

    > **Note:**
    > 
    > After downloading your Dedicated Tier cluster CA, you can store it in the default storage path of your operating system, or specify another storage path. Make sure that you need to replace the CA path in the code example with your own cluster CA path in the subsequent steps. 

```

6. Under **Step 3: Connect with an SQL client** in the dialog, click the tab of your preferred connection method, and then refer to the connection string and sample code on the tab to connect to your cluster.

The following examples show the connection strings in MySQL, MyCLI , JDBC, Python, Go, and Node.js:

<SimpleTab>
<div label="MySQL CLI">

MySQL CLI client attempts to establish a TLS connection by default. When you connect to Dedicated Tier clusters, you should set `ssl-mode` and `ssl-ca`.

```shell
mysql --connect-timeout 15 --ssl-mode=VERIFY_IDENTITY --ssl-ca=ca.pem --tls-version="TLSv1.2" -u root -h tidb.eqlfbdgthh8.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com -P 4000 -D test -p
```

Parameter description：

- With `--ssl-mode=VERIFY_IDENTITY`, MySQL CLI client forces to enable TLS and validate TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters.

> - Use `--ssl-ca=<CA_root_path>` to set the CA root path on your system.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Use `--ssl-ca=<CA_root_path>` to specify your local path of the downloaded TiDB cluster CA.
```

> - Use `--tls-version=TLSv1.2` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol.

Reviewer 3: Do we need to mention that users can update 1.2 to 1.3 if they use TLS 1.3?

Author: good idea ， update now

</div>

<div label="MyCLI">

[MyCLI](https://www.mycli.net/) automatically enables TLS when using TLS related parameters. When you connect to TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters, you need to set `ssl-ca` and `ssl-verify-server-cert`.

```shell
mycli --ssl-ca=ca.pem --ssl-verify-server-cert -u root -h tidb.eqlfbdgthh8.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com -P 4000 -D test
```

Parameter description：

> - Use `--ssl-ca=<CA_root_path>` to set the CA root path on your system.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Use `--ssl-ca=<CA_root_path>` to specify your local path of the downloaded TiDB cluster CA.
```

- With `--ssl-verify-server-cert` to validate TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters.

</div>

<div label="JDBC">

[MySQL Connector/J](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/connector-j/8.0/en/)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.

> After downloaded TiDB cluster CA,if you want to import it into your operating system,Please refer to the command **keytool -importcert -alias TiDBCACert -file ca.pem -keystore <your_custom_truststore_path> -storepass <your_truststore_password>** 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After downloading TiDB cluster CA, if you want to import it into your operating system, you can use the `keytool -importcert -alias TiDBCACert -file ca.pem -keystore <your_custom_truststore_path> -storepass <your_truststore_password>` command.
```

- Set `enabledTLSProtocols=TLSv1.2` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol.
- Set `trustCertificateKeyStoreUrl` to your custom truststore path.
- Set `trustCertificateKeyStorePassword` to your truststore password.

</div>

<div label="Python">

[mysqlclient](https://pypi.org/project/mysqlclient/)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.

```
host="tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com", user="root", password="<your_password>", port=4000, database="test", ssl_mode="VERIFY_IDENTITY", ssl={"ca": "ca.pem"}
```

You can click **show example usage** to view detailed code examples.

```
import MySQLdb

connection = MySQLdb.connect(host="tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com", port=4000, user="root", password="<your_password>", database="test", ssl_mode="VERIFY_IDENTITY", ssl={"ca": "ca.pem"})

with connection:
    with connection.cursor() as cursor:
        cursor.execute("SELECT DATABASE();")
        m = cursor.fetchone()
        print(m[0])
```

Parameter description：

- Set `ssl_mode="VERIFY_IDENTITY"` to enable TLS and validate TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters.

> - Set `ssl={"ca": "<CA_root_path>"}` to set the CA root path on your system.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Update `ca.pem` in `ssl={"ca": "ca.pem"}` to your local path of the downloaded TiDB cluster CA.
```

})
    
db, err := sql.Open("mysql", "root:<your_password>@tcp(tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com:4000)/test?tls=tidb")
```

You can click **show example usage** to view detailed code examples.

```
package main
import (
  "crypto/tls"
  "crypto/x509"
  "database/sql"
  "fmt"
  "io/ioutil"
  "log"
  
  "github.com/go-sql-driver/mysql"
)    
func main() {
  rootCertPool := x509.NewCertPool()
  pem, err := ioutil.ReadFile("ca.pem")
  if err != nil {
    log.Fatal(err)
  }
  if ok := rootCertPool.AppendCertsFromPEM(pem); !ok {
    log.Fatal("Failed to append PEM.")
  }
  mysql.RegisterTLSConfig("tidb", &tls.Config{
    RootCAs:    rootCertPool,
    MinVersion: tls.VersionTLS12,
    ServerName: "tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com",
  })
  db, err := sql.Open("mysql", "root:<your_password>@tcp(tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com:4000)/test?tls=tidb")
  if err != nil {
    log.Fatal("failed to connect database", err)
  }
  defer db.Close()

  var dbName string
  err = db.QueryRow("SELECT DATABASE();").Scan(&dbName)
  if err != nil {
    log.Fatal("failed to execute query", err)
  }
  fmt.Println(dbName)
}
```

Parameter description：

> - Register `tls.Config` in connection to enable TLS and validate TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters. 

Reviewer 3: What does "in connection" mean?  "in the connection string"?

Author: updated ，thanks

- Set `MinVersion: tls.VersionTLS12` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol.
- Set `ServerName: "<host>"` to verify TiDB Dedicated Tier's hostname.
- If you do not want to register a new TLS configuration, you can just set `tls=true` in the connection string.

</div>

<div label="Node.js">

> [Mysql](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mysql2)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Mysql2](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mysql2)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.
```

```
var connection = mysql.createConnection({
  host: 'tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com',
  port: 4000,
  user: 'root',
  password: '<your_password>',
  database: 'test',
  ssl: {
    ca: fs.readFileSync('ca.pem'),
    minVersion: 'TLSv1.2',
    rejectUnauthorized: true
  }
});
```

You can click **show example usage** to view detailed code examples.

```
var mysql = require('mysql2');
var fs = require('fs');
var connection = mysql.createConnection({
  host: 'tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com',
  port: 4000,
  user: 'root',
  password: '<your_password>',
  database: 'test',
  ssl: {
    ca: fs.readFileSync('ca.pem'),
    minVersion: 'TLSv1.2',
    rejectUnauthorized: true
  }
});
connection.connect(function(err) {
  if (err) {
    throw err
  }
  connection.query('SELECT DATABASE();', function(err, rows) {
    if (err) {
      throw err
    }
    console.log(rows[0]['DATABASE()']);
    connection.end()
  });
});
```

Parameter description：

- Set `ssl: {minVersion: 'TLSv1.2'}` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol.

> - Set `ssl: {ca: fs.readFileSync('ca.pem')}` to read the special path ca.pem.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Set `ssl: {ca: fs.readFileSync('<CA_root_path>')}` to read the content of cert.
```

Reviewer 3: Does it mean "- Update `ca.pem` in `ssl: {ca: fs.readFileSync('ca.pem')}` to your local path of the downloaded TiDB cluster CA."

</div>
</SimpleTab>

> ## Create and Reset Dedicated database password
> 
> When you connect to your cluster for the first time, you should click **Security Setting** to automatically generate a root password with a length of 16 characters, including numbers, uppercase and lowercase characters, and special characters. 
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 3: reason: this information has been covered in Line 16 in prerequisites

## Root Digital certificate management of Dedicated Tier 

### Root Digital certificate‘s issuance and validity  

> TiDB Dedicated Tier uses certificates from [AWS Certificate Manager (ACM)](https://aws.amazon.com/certificate-manager/) as a Certificate Authority (CA) for TLS connection between clients and TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters. Usually, the root certificate of ACM are stored securely in AWS managed hardware security modules (HSMs) that adhere to [FIPS 140-2 Level 3](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/Certificate/3139) security standards. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
TiDB Dedicated Tier uses certificates from [AWS Certificate Manager (ACM)](https://aws.amazon.com/certificate-manager/) as a Certificate Authority (CA) for TLS connections between clients and TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters. Usually, the root certificates of ACM are stored securely in AWS-managed hardware security modules (HSMs) that meet [FIPS 140-2 Level 3](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/Certificate/3139) security standards. 
```

> > **Note:**
> >
> After you download your Dedicated Tier cluster CA to the local operating system, you can store it in the system default storage directory, or customize the TiDB Cluster CA storage directory. It should be noted that you need to add your local real TiDB Cluster CA path to the code example.
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 3: reason: move this note to step 5 under  "Secure connection to a Dedicated Tier cluster" because users need to pay attention to that in step 6

---
title: TLS connection to Dedicated Tier
summary: Introduce TLS connection in TiDB Dedicated Tier.
---

# TLS connection to Dedicated Tier

> On TiDB Cloud, TLS connections are one of the basic security practices for connecting to Dedicated Tier clusters. We support you to configure multiple TLS connections from client, application and development tools to protect your data transmission security.Dedicated Tier cluster only supports TLS 1.2 or TLS 1.3, and does not support TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1 versions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On TiDB Cloud, TLS connections are one of the basic security practices for connecting to Dedicated Tier clusters. We support you to configure multiple TLS connections from client, application and development tools to protect your data transmission security. Dedicated Tier cluster only supports TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3, and does not support TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1 versions.
```

Each Dedicated Tier cluster server TLS certificate is hosted on [AWS Certificate Manager (ACM)](https://aws.amazon.com/certificate-manager/), ACM Private CA keys are stored securely in AWS managed hardware security modules (HSMs) that adhere to [FIPS 140-2 Level 3](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/Certificate/3139) security standards in order to protect your TLS private keys when Dedicated Tier request AWS ACM to create it.

> **Note:**
>
> Best practices for network access security include three steps:
> Step1: Set up [IP Access List](/tidb-cloud/configure-ip-access-list.md)
> Step2: Set up [Private Link](/tidb-cloud/set-up-private-endpoint-connections.md)

> > Step3: Set up TLS Connection

Reviewer 2: Style is not a list.

## Prerequisites

Before connecting to your dedicated cluster, log in to TiDB Cloud via [Password Authentication](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-password-authentication.md) or [SSO Authentication](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-sso-authentication.md), and then [Create a TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier cluster](/tidb-cloud/create-tidb-cluster.md).

## Secure connection to a Dedicated Tier cluster

In the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/), you can get examples of different connection methods and connect to your Dedicated Tier cluster as follows:

1. Navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project, and then click the name of your Dedicated Tier cluster to go to its overview page.

2. Click **Connect** in the upper-right corner. A dialog named standard connection tap is displayed.

3. In this dialog, you should setup three steps:
   - Step 1：Create traffic filter
   - Step 2：Download TiDB cluster CA
   - Step 3：Connect with an SQL client

4. In the Step1：Create traffic filter

> Specify the traffic allowed to connect the cluster. Traffic matching any filter is allowed, and all other traffic is denied. For detailed configuration, see: Configure your [IP Access List](/tidb-cloud/configure-ip-access-list.md)

Reviewer 2: need indent? @qiancai

```
You can select "show example usage" to view detailed code examples

```
import com.mysql.jdbc.Driver;
import java.sql.*;
  
class Main {
  public static void main(String args[]) throws SQLException, ClassNotFoundException {
    Class.forName("com.mysql.cj.jdbc.Driver");
    try {
      Connection conn = DriverManager.getConnection("jdbc:mysql://tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com:4000/test?user=root&password=<your_password>&sslMode=VERIFY_IDENTITY&tlsVersions=TLSv1.2&trustCertificateKeyStoreUrl=file:<your_custom_truststore_path>&trustCertificateKeyStorePassword=<your_truststore_password>");
      Statement stmt = conn.createStatement();
      try {
        ResultSet rs = stmt.executeQuery("SELECT DATABASE();");
        if (rs.next()) {
          System.out.println("using db:" + rs.getString(1));
        }
      } catch (Exception e) {
        System.out.println("exec error:" + e);
      }      
    } catch (Exception e) {
      System.out.println("connect error:" + e);
    }
  }
}
```

Parameter description：

> - Set `sslMode=VERIFY_IDENTITY` to enable TLS and validate TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters. JDBC trusts system CA root certificates by default, so you do not need to configure certificates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Set `sslMode=VERIFY_IDENTITY` to enable TLS and validate TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters.
```

- Set `enabledTLSProtocols=TLSv1.2` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol.

> - Set `trustCertificateKeyStoreUrl` to restrict your custom truststore path.
> - Set `trustCertificateKeyStorePassword` to restrict your seting truststore password.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Set `trustCertificateKeyStoreUrl` to your custom truststore path.
- Set `trustCertificateKeyStorePassword` to your truststore password.
```

</div>

<div label="Node.js">

[Mysql](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mysql2)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.

```
var connection = mysql.createConnection({
  host: 'tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com',
  port: 4000,
  user: 'root',
  password: '<your_password>',
  database: 'test',
  ssl: {
    ca: fs.readFileSync('ca.pem'),
    minVersion: 'TLSv1.2',
    rejectUnauthorized: true
  }
});
```

You can select "show example usage" to view detailed code examples

```
var mysql = require('mysql2');
var fs = require('fs');
var connection = mysql.createConnection({
  host: 'tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com',
  port: 4000,
  user: 'root',
  password: '<your_password>',
  database: 'test',
  ssl: {
    ca: fs.readFileSync('ca.pem'),
    minVersion: 'TLSv1.2',
    rejectUnauthorized: true
  }
});
connection.connect(function(err) {
  if (err) {
    throw err
  }
  connection.query('SELECT DATABASE();', function(err, rows) {
    if (err) {
      throw err
    }
    console.log(rows[0]['DATABASE()']);
    connection.end()
  });
});
```

Parameter description：

> - Set `ssl: {minVersion: 'TLSv1.2'}` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol.

Reviewer 2: add `ca`

---

> title: TLS connection to Dedicated Tier

Reviewer 2: s. see the catalog

summary: Introduce TLS connection in TiDB Dedicated Tier.
---

# TLS connection to Dedicated Tier

On TiDB Cloud, TLS connections are one of the basic security practices for connecting to Dedicated Tier clusters. We support you to configure multiple TLS connections from client, application and development tools to protect your data transmission security.

Each Dedicated Tier cluster server TLS certificate is hosted on [AWS Certificate Manager (ACM)](https://aws.amazon.com/certificate-manager/), ACM Private CA keys are stored securely in AWS managed hardware security modules (HSMs) that adhere to [FIPS 140-2 Level 3](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/Certificate/3139) security standards in order to protect your TLS private keys when Dedicated Tier request AWS ACM to create it.

> **Note:**
>
> Best practices for network access security include three steps:
> Step1: Set up [IP Access List](/tidb-cloud/configure-ip-access-list.md)
> Step2: Set up [Private Link](/tidb-cloud/set-up-private-endpoint-connections.md)

> > Step3: Set up TLS Connection

Reviewer 2: Question is when using private link, still necessary to use TLS? And if it is, have we tested and provide steps on how to set TLS with private link? Not only AWS, but also GCP.

Author: sound good，how to set private link refer private link, already linked, Currently ,we don't support GCP Private link

Reviewer 2: But the link does not show how to set TLS under private link. :-(
I know, we don't support private link on GCP now. So it this still our recommendation?

## Prerequisites

> Before connecting to your dedicated cluster, Log in to TiDB Cloud via [Password Authentication](/tidb-cloud-password-authentication.md) or [SSO Authentication](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-sso-authentication.md),and then [Create a TiDB Cloud Serveless Tier cluster](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-quickstart.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before connecting to your dedicated cluster, log in to TiDB Cloud via [Password Authentication](/tidb-cloud-password-authentication.md) or [SSO Authentication](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-sso-authentication.md), and then [Create a TiDB Cloud Serveless Tier cluster](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-quickstart.md).
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

Set a password to access your cluster. To do so, you can navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project, click **...** in the row of your Dedicated Tier cluster, and then select **Security Settings**.  In security settings,  You can click **Generate** to automatically generate a root password with a length of 16 characters, including numbers, uppercase and lowercase characters, and special characters. 

```

> Before connecting to your dedicated cluster, log in to TiDB Cloud via [Password Authentication](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-password-authentication.md) or [SSO Authentication](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-sso-authentication.md), and then [Create a TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier cluster](/tidb-cloud/create-tidb-cluster.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Log in to TiDB Cloud via [Password Authentication](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-password-authentication.md) or [SSO Authentication](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-sso-authentication.md), and then [Create a TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier cluster](/tidb-cloud/create-tidb-cluster.md).

- Set a password to access your cluster in secure settings.

    To do so, you can navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project, click **...** in the row of your Dedicated Tier cluster, and then select **Security Settings**. In security settings, you can click **Generate** to automatically generate a root password with a length of 16 characters, including numbers, uppercase and lowercase characters, and special characters.
```

## Secure connection to a Dedicated Tier cluster

In the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/), you can get examples of different connection methods and connect to your Dedicated Tier cluster as follows:

1. Navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project, and then click the name of your Dedicated Tier cluster to go to its overview page.

> 2. Click **Connect** in the upper-right corner. A dialog named standard connection tap is displayed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Click **Connect** in the upper-right corner.  A dialog is displayed.
```

> 3. In this dialog, you should setup three steps:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. On the **Standard Connection** tab of this dialog, follow the three steps to set up the TLS connctions.
```

   - Step 1：Create traffic filter
   - Step 2：Download TiDB cluster CA
   - Step 3：Connect with an SQL client

> 4. In the Step1：Create traffic filter
> 
> Specify the traffic allowed to connect the cluster. Traffic matching any filter is allowed, and all other traffic is denied. For detailed configuration, see: Configure your [IP Access List](/tidb-cloud/configure-ip-access-list.md)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. Under **Step 1：Create traffic filter** in the dialog, configure the IP addresses that are allowed to access your cluster. For more information, see [Configure an IP access list in standard connection](/tidb-cloud/configure-ip-access-list.md#configure-an-ip-access-list-in-standard-connection).
```

5. In the Step 2：Download TiDB cluster CA

> You should click **"**Download TiDB Cluster CA** to download it locally for client TLS configuration.Because of verifying the TiDB cluster CA can ensure the TLS connection is secure and reliable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should click **"**Download TiDB Cluster CA** to download it locally for client TLS configuration. Because of verifying the TiDB cluster CA can ensure the TLS connection is secure and reliable.
```

> 5. In the Step 2：Download TiDB cluster CA
> 
> You should click **"**Download TiDB Cluster CA** to download it locally for client TLS configuration. Because of verifying the TiDB cluster CA can ensure the TLS connection is secure and reliable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
5. Under **Step 2: Download TiDB cluster CA**, click **Download TiDB Cluster CA** to download it locally for client TLS configuration. Verifying the TiDB cluster CA can ensure the TLS connection is secure and reliable.
```

> 6. In the Step 3：Connect with an SQL client
> 
> Connect with a SQL client in the dialog, click the tab of your preferred connection method, and then refer to the connection string and sample code on the tab to connect to your cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
6. Under **Step 3: Connect with an SQL client** in the dialog, click the tab of your preferred connection method, and then refer to the connection string and sample code on the tab to connect to your cluster.
```

>    - Support Mysql CLI, MyCLI, JDBC, Python, Go, Node.js and other six ways to connect to your Dedicated Tier cluster

Reviewer 2: no other six

>    - Provide MacOS, Debian, RedHat, Alpine, OpenSUSE, Windows and other operating system configuration parameters

Reviewer 2: no, dedicated cluster doesn't use the new connect tab design. So there is no OS.

The following examples show the connection string in MySQL CLI , MyCLI , JDBC, Python, Go and Node.js:

<SimpleTab>
<div label="MySQL CLI">

> MySQL CLI client attempts to establish TLS connection by default. When you connect to Dedicated Tier clusters, you should set `ssl-mode` and `ssl-ca`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
MySQL CLI client attempts to establish a TLS connection by default. When you connect to Dedicated Tier clusters, you should set `ssl-mode` and `ssl-ca`.
```

```shell
mysql --connect-timeout 15 --ssl-mode=VERIFY_IDENTITY --ssl-ca=ca.pem --tls-version="TLSv1.2" -u root -h tidb.eqlfbdgthh8.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com -P 4000 -D test -p
```

Parameter description：

- With `--ssl-mode=VERIFY_IDENTITY`, MySQL CLI client forces to enable TLS and validate TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters.
- Use `--ssl-ca=<CA_root_path>` to set the CA root path on your system.

> - Use `--tls-version=TLSv1.2,TLSv1.3` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol.

Reviewer 2: sample use TLSv1.2 only

</div>

<div label="MyCLI">

[MyCLI](https://www.mycli.net/) automatically enables TLS when using TLS related parameters. When you connect to TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters, you need to set `ssl-ca` and `ssl-verify-server-cert`.

```shell
mycli --ssl-ca=ca.pem --ssl-verify-server-cert -u root -h tidb.eqlfbdgthh8.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com -P 4000 -D test
```

Parameter description：

- Use `--ssl-ca=<CA_root_path>` to set the CA root path on your system.
- With `--ssl-verify-server-cert` to validate TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters.

</div>

<div label="JDBC">

[MySQL Connector/J](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/connector-j/8.0/en/)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.

> After downloaded TLS,if you want to import your downloaded TLS Certificate Template,Please refer to the order **keytool -importcert -alias TiDBCACert -file ca.pem -keystore <your_custom_truststore_path> -storepass <your_truststore_password>** 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After downloaded cert, if you want to import your downloaded cert, please refer to the command **keytool -importcert -alias TiDBCACert -file ca.pem -keystore <your_custom_truststore_path> -storepass <your_truststore_password>** 
```

Author: updated but improve this sentence ，thanks

```shell
/* Be sure to replace the parameters in the following connection string. */
/* version >= 8.0.28 */
jdbc:mysql://tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com:4000/test?user=root&password=<your_password>&sslMode=VERIFY_IDENTITY&tlsVersions=TLSv1.2&trustCertificateKeyStoreUrl=file:<your_custom_truststore_path>&trustCertificateKeyStorePassword=<your_truststore_password>
```

> You can select "show example usage" to view detailed code examples

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can click **show example usage** to view detailed code examples.
```

```
import com.mysql.jdbc.Driver;
import java.sql.*;
  
class Main {
  public static void main(String args[]) throws SQLException, ClassNotFoundException {
    Class.forName("com.mysql.cj.jdbc.Driver");
    try {
      Connection conn = DriverManager.getConnection("jdbc:mysql://tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com:4000/test?user=root&password=<your_password>&sslMode=VERIFY_IDENTITY&tlsVersions=TLSv1.2&trustCertificateKeyStoreUrl=file:<your_custom_truststore_path>&trustCertificateKeyStorePassword=<your_truststore_password>");
      Statement stmt = conn.createStatement();
      try {
        ResultSet rs = stmt.executeQuery("SELECT DATABASE();");
        if (rs.next()) {
          System.out.println("using db:" + rs.getString(1));
        }
      } catch (Exception e) {
        System.out.println("exec error:" + e);
      }      
    } catch (Exception e) {
      System.out.println("connect error:" + e);
    }
  }
}
```

Parameter description：

- Set `sslMode=VERIFY_IDENTITY` to enable TLS and validate TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters. JDBC trusts system CA root certificates by default, so you do not need to configure certificates.

> - Set `enabledTLSProtocols=TLSv1.2,TLSv1.3` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol.

Reviewer 2: The sample only use TLSv1.2

</div>

<div label="Python">

[mysqlclient](https://pypi.org/project/mysqlclient/)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.

```
host="tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com", user="root", password="<your_password>", port=4000, database="test", ssl_mode="VERIFY_IDENTITY", ssl={"ca": "ca.pem"}
```

> You can select "show example usage" to view detailed code examples

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can click **show example usage** to view detailed code examples.
```

with connection:
    with connection.cursor() as cursor:
        cursor.execute("SELECT DATABASE();")
        m = cursor.fetchone()
        print(m[0])
```

Parameter description：

- Set `ssl_mode="VERIFY_IDENTITY"` to enable TLS and validate TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters.
- Set `ssl={"ca": "<CA_root_path>"}` to set the CA root path on your system.

</div>

<div label="Go">

[Go-MySQL-Driver](https://github.com/go-sql-driver/mysql)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.

```
rootCertPool := x509.NewCertPool()
pem, err := ioutil.ReadFile("ca.pem")
if err != nil {
    log.Fatal(err)
}
if ok := rootCertPool.AppendCertsFromPEM(pem); !ok {
    log.Fatal("Failed to append PEM.")
}
mysql.RegisterTLSConfig("tidb", &tls.Config{
    RootCAs:    rootCertPool,
    MinVersion: tls.VersionTLS12,
    ServerName: "tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com",
})
    
db, err := sql.Open("mysql", "root:<your_password>@tcp(tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com:4000)/test?tls=tidb")
```

> You can select "show example usage" to view detailed code examples

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can click **show example usage** to view detailed code examples.
```

```
package main
import (
  "crypto/tls"
  "crypto/x509"
  "database/sql"
  "fmt"
  "io/ioutil"
  "log"
  
  "github.com/go-sql-driver/mysql"
)    
func main() {
  rootCertPool := x509.NewCertPool()
  pem, err := ioutil.ReadFile("ca.pem")
  if err != nil {
    log.Fatal(err)
  }
  if ok := rootCertPool.AppendCertsFromPEM(pem); !ok {
    log.Fatal("Failed to append PEM.")
  }
  mysql.RegisterTLSConfig("tidb", &tls.Config{
    RootCAs:    rootCertPool,
    MinVersion: tls.VersionTLS12,
    ServerName: "tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com",
  })
  db, err := sql.Open("mysql", "root:<your_password>@tcp(tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com:4000)/test?tls=tidb")
  if err != nil {
    log.Fatal("failed to connect database", err)
  }
  defer db.Close()

  var dbName string
  err = db.QueryRow("SELECT DATABASE();").Scan(&dbName)
  if err != nil {
    log.Fatal("failed to execute query", err)
  }
  fmt.Println(dbName)
}
```

Parameter description：

> - Register `tls.Config` in connection to enable TLS and validate TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters. Go-MySQL-Driver uses system CA root certificates by default, so you do not need to configure certificates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Register `tls.Config` in connection to enable TLS and validate TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters.
```

> - Set `MinVersion: tls.VersionTLS12，TLS13` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Set `MinVersion: tls.VersionTLS12` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol.
```

- Set `ServerName: "<host>"` to verify TiDB Dedicated Tier's hostname.
- If you do not want to register a new TLS configuration, you can just set `tls=true` in the connection string.

</div>

<div label="Node.js">

[Mysql](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mysql2)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.

```
var connection = mysql.createConnection({
  host: 'tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com',
  port: 4000,
  user: 'root',
  password: '<your_password>',
  database: 'test',
  ssl: {
    ca: fs.readFileSync('ca.pem'),
    minVersion: 'TLSv1.2',
    rejectUnauthorized: true
  }
});
```

> You can select "show example usage" to view detailed code examples

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can click **show example usage** to view detailed code examples.
```

```
var mysql = require('mysql2');
var fs = require('fs');
var connection = mysql.createConnection({
  host: 'tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com',
  port: 4000,
  user: 'root',
  password: '<your_password>',
  database: 'test',
  ssl: {
    ca: fs.readFileSync('ca.pem'),
    minVersion: 'TLSv1.2',
    rejectUnauthorized: true
  }
});
connection.connect(function(err) {
  if (err) {
    throw err
  }
  connection.query('SELECT DATABASE();', function(err, rows) {
    if (err) {
      throw err
    }
    console.log(rows[0]['DATABASE()']);
    connection.end()
  });
});
```

Parameter description：

> - Set `ssl: {minVersion: 'TLSv1.2,TLS1.3'}` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Set `ssl: {minVersion: 'TLSv1.2'}` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol.
```

Reviewer 2: Add `ca` plz.

</div>
</SimpleTab>

## Create and Reset Dedicated database password

> When you connect to your cluster for the first time,You should click **Security Setting** to automatically generate a root password with a length of 16 characters, including numbers, uppercase and lowercase characters, and special characters. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you connect to your cluster for the first time, you should click **Security Setting** to automatically generate a root password with a length of 16 characters, including numbers, uppercase and lowercase characters, and special characters. 
```

> When you connect to your cluster for the first time,You should click **Security Setting** to automatically generate a root password with a length of 16 characters, including numbers, uppercase and lowercase characters, and special characters. 

Reviewer 3: From the user perspective, "Create and Reset Dedicated database password" should be done before using the connection string to connect to the cluster so I suggest moving it to the prerequisite of this document.

## Root Digital certificate management of Dedicated Tier 

### Root Digital certificate‘s issuance and validity  

TiDB Dedicated Tier uses certificates from [AWS Certificate Manager (ACM)](https://aws.amazon.com/certificate-manager/) as a Certificate Authority (CA) for TLS connection between clients and TiDB Dedicated Tier clusters. Usually, the root certificate of ACM are stored securely in AWS managed hardware security modules (HSMs) that adhere to [FIPS 140-2 Level 3](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/Certificate/3139) security standards. 

> **Note:**
>
After you download your Dedicated Tier cluster CA to the local operating system, you can store it in the system default storage directory, or customize the TiDB Cluster CA storage directory. It should be noted that you need to add your local real TiDB Cluster CA path to the code example.

## FAQs

### Which TLS versions should be supported to connect to my TiDB Dedicated Tier cluster?

> TiDB Dedicated cluster only supports TLS 1.2 or TLS 1.3, and does not support TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1 versions for security reasons. Refer to see IETF [Deprecating TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc8996/) for ditails.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For security reasons, TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier only supports TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3, and does not support TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1 versions. See IETF [Deprecating TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc8996/) for details.
```

> ### Does TiDB Dedicated Tier support two-way TLS authentication between my client and TiDB Dedicated Tier cluster?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Is two-way TLS authentication between my client and TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier supported?
```

No.

> Currently,TiDB Dedicated Tier support one-way TLS authentication, which means your client uses public key to verify the signature of your TiDB Dedicated Tier Cluster Server certificate's private key,while the server does not validate the client.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier only supports one-way TLS authentication, which means your client uses the public key to verify the signature of your TiDB Cloud cluster certificate's private key while the cluster does not validate the client.
```

> ### Does TiDB Dedicated Tier cluster have to configure TLS to establish a secure connection?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Does TiDB Dedicated Tier have to configure TLS to establish a secure connection?
```

---
title: TLS connection to Dedicated Tier
summary: Introduce TLS connection in TiDB Dedicated Tier.
---

# TLS connection to Dedicated Tier

> On TiDB Cloud, TLS connections are one of the basic security practices for connecting to Dedicated Tier clusters. We support you to configure multiple TLS connections from client, application and development tools to protect your data transmission security, mainly including: supporting MySQL CLI , MyCLI , JDBC, Python, Go and Node.js.

Reviewer 2: I don't like the last sentence. TiDB is MySQL compatible so any MySQL-compatible client is able to connect to TiDB. Don't give users a feeling that we only support these clients. We just give them some examples here.

```
/etc/ssl/ca_root.pem
```

**OpenSUSE**

```
/etc/ssl/ca_root.pem
```

**Windows**

Windows does not offer a specific path to the CA root. Instead, it uses the [registry](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/drivers/install/local-machine-and-current-user-certificate-stores) to store certificates. For this reason, to specify the CA root path on Windows, take the following steps:

## FAQs

### Which TLS versions should be supported to connect to my TiDB Dedicated Tier cluster?

TiDB Dedicated cluster only supports TLS 1.2 or TLS 1.3, and does not support TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1 versions for security reasons. Refer to see IETF [Deprecating TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc8996/) for ditails.

### Does TiDB Dedicated Tier support two-way TLS authentication between my client and TiDB Dedicated Tier cluster?

No.

Currently,TiDB Dedicated Tier support one-way TLS authentication, which means your client uses public key to verify the signature of your TiDB Dedicated Tier Cluster Server certificate's private key,while the server does not validate the client.

### Does TiDB Dedicated Tier cluster have to configure TLS to establish a secure connection?

> Yes.

Reviewer 2: Dedicated allow non-TLS connections.

Author: you are right, maybe this description should be updated after fix this issues , we will delete this content first.

Reviewer 3: For this question, do we need to update "Yes" to "No" for now?

Author: updated this question
